content/pages/about/index.mdx, before:

---
title: About
slug: "/about"
---

Hi!

Remus Lupin - also known as Moony - is currently teaching "Defense against the Dark Arts" at Hogwarts. He was afflicted with lycanthropy during his childhood, as a result of Fenrir Greyback's revenge against Lyall. He attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry from 1971-1978 and was Sorted into Gryffindor House. During his school years he was one of the Marauders, best friends with Sirius Black, James Potter, and Peter Pettigrew. Together they created the Marauder's Map.

He fought against Death Eaters once more in the Second Wizarding War, during which he lost his friend Sirius. In 1997, Remus married fellow Order member Nymphadora Tonks and had a son, Edward Remus Lupin, of whom he named Harry the godfather. Remus fought at the Battle of Hogwarts on 2 May, 1998, during which his wife was murdered by Bellatrix Lestrange. Remus was also murdered by Death Eater, Antonin Dolohov, during the first half of the same battle. His death was avenged by Filius Flitwick.

Commit message:

Add /about page content and update metadata

content/pages/about/index.mdx, after:

---
title: About
slug: "/about"
---

import BioWithPhoto from "./bioWithPhoto.js"

<BioWithPhoto>

I'm a software engineer living in Chicago working for [cars.com](https://www.cars.com/).

Over the past decade I've focused on building web applications. I've worked for companies
ranging from startups to large dot-coms ([yellowpages.com](https://www.yellowpages.com/) and [cars.com](https://www.cars.com/)).
With every project I work on, I'm a voice for the user and enjoy discovering new ways to optimize the user experience.

I'm passionate about teaching and enjoy presenting at meetups. I'm a member of the
[Toastmasters International](https://www.toastmasters.org/) club where we
meet regularly to practice public speaking and develop our communication skills.

Music has always been a big part of my life. I play guitar and drums and incorporate music into most of my blog posts.
I'm a Christian and love playing guitar and drums in the [Four Corners Community Church](https://fccc.church/) worship band.
</BioWithPhoto>

I'm blessed with an amazing family. Here's my wife Raquel and my two kids, Micah and Delilah.

<div style="max-width: 800px;">
  <img style="max-width: 100%; height: auto;" src="/jopa-family.jpg" alt="Jopa Family" />
</div>

> Above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins. - 1 Peter 4:8 NIV
